# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Resource types**

* [`iis_application`](#iis_application): Allows creation of a new IIS Application and configuration of
    application parameters.
* [`iis_application_pool`](#iis_application_pool): Allows creation of a new IIS Application Pool and configuration of application pool parameters.
* [`iis_feature`](#iis_feature): Allows installation and removal of IIS Features.
* [`iis_site`](#iis_site): Allows creation of a new IIS Web Site and configuration of site parameters.
* [`iis_virtual_directory`](#iis_virtual_directory): Allows creation of a new IIS Virtual Directory and configuration of virtual directory parameters.

## Resource types

### iis_application

The iis_application type uses an applicationname and a sitename to
create an IIS Application. When specifying an application you must
specify both. You can specify the sitename by putting it in the title
as in \"$site_name\\$application_name\", or you can use the named
parameters. If converting a virtual directory to an app, you can use
the virtual_directory parameter to specify the site and omit the
sitename parameter. To manage two applications of the same name within
different websites on an IIS instance, you must ensure the resource
title is unique. You can do this by entering both the sitename and
applicationname in the title, or using a descriptive title for the
resource and using the named parameters for sitename and
applicationname

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `iis_application` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

##### `sitename`

The name of the site for the application.

##### `physicalpath`

The physical path to the application directory. This path must be
fully qualified.

##### `applicationpool`

The name of the application pool for the application.

##### `sslflags`

Valid values: Ssl, SslRequireCert, SslNegotiateCert

The SSL settings for the application. Valid options are an array of
flags, with the following names: \'Ssl\', \'SslRequireCert\',
\'SslNegotiateCert\', \'Ssl128\'.

##### `authenticationinfo`



##### `enabledprotocols`

The comma-delimited list of enabled protocols for the application.
Valid protocols are: \'http\', \'https\', \'net.pipe\', \'net.tcp\', \'net.msmq\', \'msmq.formatname\'.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `iis_application` type.

##### `applicationname`

The name of the application. The virtual path of the application is
'/<applicationname>'.

##### `virtual_directory`

The IIS Virtual Directory to convert to an application on create.
Similar to iis_application, iis_virtual_directory uses composite
namevars.

### iis_application_pool

Allows creation of a new IIS Application Pool and configuration of application pool parameters.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `iis_application_pool` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

Specifies whether an application pool should be present or absent.
If `state` is not specified, the application pool will be created
and left in the default started state.

Default value: present

##### `state`

Valid values: started, stopped, Stopped, Started

Aliases: "Stopped"=>"stopped", "Started"=>"started"

The state of the ApplicationPool. By default, a newly created
application pool will be started

##### `auto_start`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When `true`, indicates to the World Wide Web Publishing Service (W3SVC)
that the application pool should be automatically started when it is
created or when IIS is started.

##### `clr_config_file`

Specifies the .NET configuration file for the application pool

##### `enable32_bit_app_on_win64`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When `true`, enables a 32-bit application to run on a computer that
runs a 64-bit version of Windows.

##### `enable_configuration_override`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When `true`, indicates that delegated settings in Web.config files
will processed for applications within this application pool. When
`false`, all settings in Web.config files will be ignored for this
application pool.

##### `managed_pipeline_mode`

Valid values: Integrated, Classic

Specifies the request-processing mode that is used to process requests
for managed content.

##### `managed_runtime_loader`

Specifies the managed loader to use for pre-loading the the
application pool. Note: This property was added in IIS 7.5. The
default value is 'webengine4.dll'.

##### `managed_runtime_version`

Valid values: '', v1.1, v2.0, v4.0

Specifies the .NET Framework version to be used by the application pool.
Specify an empty string (`''`) to set as 'No Managed Code.'

##### `pass_anonymous_token`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When `true`, the Windows Process Activation Service (WAS) creates
and passes a token for the built-in IUSR anonymous user account to
the Anonymous authentication module. The Anonymous authentication
module uses the token to impersonate the built-in account. When
`false`, the token is not passed. Note: The IUSR anonymous user
account replaces the IIS_MachineName anonymous account. The IUSR
account can be used by IIS or other applications. It does not have
any privileges assigned to it during setup.

##### `start_mode`

Valid values: OnDemand, AlwaysRunning

Specifies the startup type for the application pool.

##### `queue_length`

Indicates to HTTP.sys how many requests to queue for an application
pool before rejecting future requests. When the value set for this
property is exceeded, IIS rejects subsequent requests with a 503
error. If the `load_balancer_capabilities` setting is 'TcpLevel',
the connection is closed instead of rejecting requests with a 503.
For more information about `load_balancer_capabilities`, see
[Failure Settings for an Application
Pool](https://www.iis.net/configreference/system.applicationhost/applicationPools/add/failure).
Valid options 11 to 65535.

##### `cpu_action`

Valid values: NoAction, KillW3wp, Throttle, ThrottleUnderLoad

Configures the action that IIS takes when a worker process exceeds its
configured CPU limit.

##### `cpu_limit`

Configures the maximum percentage of CPU time (in 1/1000ths of one
percent) that the worker processes in an application pool are
allowed to consume over a period of time as indicated by the
`cpu_reset_interval` property. If the limit set by the limit
property is exceeded, an event is written to the event log and an
optional set of events can be triggered. These optional events are
determined by the `cpu_action` property.

##### `cpu_reset_interval`

Specifies the reset period (in minutes) for CPU monitoring and
throttling limits on an application pool. When the number of minutes
elapsed since the last process accounting reset equals the number
specified by this property, IIS resets the CPU timers for both the
logging and limit intervals.

Important: The resetInterval value must be greater than the time
between logging operations, otherwise IIS will reset counters before
logging has occurred, and process accounting will not occur.

Note: Because process accounting in IIS uses Windows job objects to
monitor CPU times for the whole process, process accounting will
only log and throttle applications that are isolated in a separate
process from IIS.

##### `cpu_smp_affinitized`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether a particular worker process assigned to an
application pool should also be assigned to a given CPU. This
property is used together with the `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask`
and `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2` properties.

##### `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask`

Specifies the hexadecimal processor mask for multi-processor
computers, which indicates to which CPU the worker processes in an
application pool should be bound. Before this property takes effect,
the `cpu_smp_affinitized` property must be set to `true` for the
application pool.

Note: On 64-bit computers, the cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask
property contains the low-order DWORD for the processor mask, and
the `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2` property contains the
high-order DWORD for the processor mask. On 32-bit computers, the
`cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2` property has no effect.

If you set the value to 1 (which corresponds to 00000000000000001 in
binary), the worker processes in an application pool run on only the
first processor. If you set the value to 2 (which corresponds to
0000000000000010 in binary), the worker processes run on only the
second processor. If you set the value to 3 (which corresponds to
0000000000000011 in binary) the worker processes run on both the
first and second processors.

Note: Do not set this property to 0. Doing so disables symmetric
multiprocessing (SMP) affinity and creates an error condition. This
means that processes running on one CPU will not remain affiliated
with that CPU throughout their lifetime.

##### `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2`

Specifies the high-order DWORD hexadecimal processor mask for 64-bit
multi-processor computers, which indicates to which CPU the worker
processes in an application pool should be bound. Before this property
takes effect, the `cpu_smp_affinitized` property must be set to `true`
for the application pool.

Note: On 64-bit computers, the `cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask`
property contains the low-order DWORD for the processor mask, and the
`cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2` property contains the high-order
DWORD for the processor mask. On 32-bit computers, the
`cpu_smp_processor_affinity_mask2` property has no effect.

##### `identity_type`

Valid values: ApplicationPoolIdentity, LocalService, LocalSystem, NetworkService, SpecificUser

Specifies the account identity under which the application pool runs.
Note: Starting in IIS 7.5 the default value is
'ApplicationPoolIdentity'. (In IIS 7.0 the default value was
'NetworkService').

##### `idle_timeout`

Specifies how long (in minutes) a worker process should run idle if
no new requests are received and the worker process is not
processing requests. After the allocated time passes, the worker
process requests that it be shut down by the WWW service.

##### `idle_timeout_action`

Valid values: Terminate, Suspend

Specifies the action to perform when the `idle_timeout` duration has
been reached. Before IIS 8.5, a worker process that was idle for the
duration of the `idle_timeout` property would be terminated. After
IIS 8.5, you have the choice of terminating a worker process that
reaches the `idle_timeout` limit, or suspending it by moving it from
memory to disk. Suspending a process will likely take less time and
consume less memory than terminating it.

##### `load_user_profile`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether IIS loads the user profile for the application
pool identity. Setting this value to `false` causes IIS to revert to
IIS 6.0 behavior. IIS 6.0 does not load the user profile for an
application pool identity.

##### `log_event_on_process_model`

Specifies which action taken in the process gets logged to the Event
Viewer. In IIS 8.0, the only action that applies is the
`idle_timeout_action`, in which the process is terminated because it
was idle for the `idle_timeout` period.

##### `logon_type`

Valid values: LogonBatch, LogonService

Specifies the logon type for the process identity. (For additional
information about logon types, see the LogonUser Function topic on
Microsoft's MSDN Web site).

##### `manual_group_membership`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether the IIS_IUSRS group Security Identifier (SID) is
added to the worker process token. When `false`, IIS automatically
uses an application pool identity as though it were a member of the
built-in IIS_IUSRS group, which has access to necessary file and
system resources. When `true`, an application pool identity must be
explicitly added to all resources that a worker process requires at
runtime.

##### `max_processes`

Indicates the maximum number of worker processes that would be used
for the application pool.

A value of 1 indicates a maximum of a single worker process for the
application pool. This would be the setting on a server that does not
have NUMA nodes.

A value of 2 or more indicates a Web garden that uses multiple worker
processes for an application pool (if necessary).

A value of 0 specifies that IIS runs the same number of worker
processes as there are Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) nodes. IIS
identifies the number of NUMA nodes that are available on the hardware
and starts the same number of worker processes. For example, if you
have four NUMA nodes, it will use a maximum of four worker processes
for that application pool. In this example, setting `max_processes` to
a value of 0 or 4 would have the same result.

##### `pinging_enabled`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

The pinging_enabled property specifies whether the WWW Service should periodically
monitor the health of a worker process. Setting the value of this property to true
indicates to the WWW service to monitor the worker processes to ensure that the
they are running and healthy.

##### `ping_interval`

Specifies the time between health-monitoring pings that the WWW
service sends to a worker process

##### `ping_response_time`

Specifies the time that a worker process is given to respond to a
health-monitoring ping. After the time limit is exceeded, the WWW
service terminates the worker process.

##### `set_profile_environment`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When set to `true`, WAS creates an environment block to pass to
CreateProcessAsUser when creating a worker process. This ensures that
the environment is set based on the user profile for the new process.

##### `shutdown_time_limit`

Specifies the time that the W3SVC service waits after it initiated a
recycle. If the worker process does not shut down within the
`shutdown_time_limit`, it will be terminated by the W3SVC service.

##### `startup_time_limit`

Specifies the time that IIS waits for an application pool to start. If
the application pool does not startup within the `startup_time_limit`,
the worker process is terminated and the rapid-fail protection count
is incremented.

##### `user_name`

Specifies the identity under which the application pool runs when the
`identity_type` is 'SpecificUser'.

##### `password`

Specifies the password associated with the `user_name` property. This
property is only necessary when the value of `identity_type` is
'SpecificUser'.

Note: To avoid storing unencrypted password strings in configuration
files, this uses AppCmd.exe. This encrypts the password automatically
before it is written to the XML configuration files. This provides
better password security than storing unencrypted passwords.

##### `orphan_action_exe`

Specifies an executable to run when the WWW service orphans a worker
process (if the `orphan_worker_process` is set to `true`). You can use
the `orphan_action_params` property to send parameters to the
executable.

##### `orphan_action_params`

Indicates command-line parameters for the executable named by the
`orphan_action_exe` property. To specify the process ID of the
orphaned process, use '%1%'.

##### `orphan_worker_process`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether to assign a worker process to an orphan state
instead of terminating it when an application pool fails.

##### `load_balancer_capabilities`

Valid values: HttpLevel, TcpLevel

Specifies behavior when a worker process cannot be started, such as
when the request queue is full or an application pool is in rapid-fail
protection.

##### `rapid_fail_protection`

Setting to `true` instructs the WWW service to remove from service
all applications that are in an application pool when:

* The number of worker process crashes has reached the maximum
  specified in the `rapid_fail_protection_max_crashes` property.

* The crashes occur within the number of minutes specified in the
  `rapid_fail_protection_interval` property.

Valid options `true` or `false`.

##### `rapid_fail_protection_interval`

Specifies the number of minutes before the failure count for a process
is reset.

##### `rapid_fail_protection_max_crashes`

Specifies the maximum number of failures allowed within the number of
minutes specified by the `rapid_fail_protection_interval` property.

##### `auto_shutdown_exe`

Specifies an executable to run when the WWW service shuts down an
application pool. You can use the `auto_shutdown_params` property to
send parameters to the executable.

##### `auto_shutdown_params`

Specifies command-line parameters for the executable that is specified
in the `auto_shutdown_exe` property.

##### `disallow_overlapping_rotation`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether the WWW Service should start another worker
process to replace the existing worker process while that process is
shutting down. The value of this property should be set to `true` if
the worker process loads any application code that does not support
multiple worker processes.

##### `disallow_rotation_on_config_change`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies whether the WWW Service should rotate worker processes in an
application pool when the configuration has changed.

##### `log_event_on_recycle`

Specifies that IIS should log an event when an application pool is
recycled. The `log_event_on_recycle` property must have a bit set
corresponding to the reason for the recycle if IIS is to log the
event. The `log_event_on_recycle` property can have one or more of the
following possible values: 'ConfigChange', 'IsapiUnhealthy', 'Memory',
'OnDemand', 'PrivateMemory', 'Requests', 'Schedule' and 'Time'.

If you specify more than one value, separate them with a comma (,).
The default flags for versions of IIS earlier than IIS 10 are 'Time',
'Memory', and 'PrivateMemory'; for IIS 10 and later are all values.

##### `restart_memory_limit`

Specifies the amount of virtual memory (in kilobytes) that a worker
process can use before the worker process is recycled. The maximum
value supported for this property is 4,294,967 KB.

##### `restart_private_memory_limit`

Specifies the amount of private memory (in kilobytes) that a worker
process can use before the worker process recycles. The maximum value
supported for this property is 4,294,967 KB.

##### `restart_requests_limit`

Specifies that the worker process should be recycled after it
processes a specific number of requests.

##### `restart_time_limit`

Specifies that the worker process should be recycled after a specified
amount of time has elapsed.

##### `restart_schedule`

Specifies the specific times in a 24-hour period that the worker
process should be recycled.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `iis_application_pool` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The unique name of the ApplicationPool.

### iis_feature

Allows installation and removal of IIS Features.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `iis_feature` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

Manage the state of this rule.

Default value: present

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `iis_feature` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The unique name of the feature to manage.

##### `include_all_subfeatures`

Indicates whether to install all sub features of a parent IIS feature.
For instance, ASP.NET as well as the IIS Web Server

##### `restart`

Indicates whether to allow a restart if the IIS feature installation
requests one

##### `include_management_tools`

Indicates whether to automatically install all managment tools for a
given IIS feature

##### `source`

Optionally include a source path for the installation media for an IIS
feature

### iis_site

Allows creation of a new IIS Web Site and configuration of site
parameters.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `iis_site` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: stopped, started, present, absent, `false`, `true`

Aliases: "false"=>"stopped", "true"=>"started"

Specifies whether a site should be present or absent. If present is
specified, the site will be created but left in the default stopped
state. If started is specified, then the site will be created as well
as started. If stopped is specified, then the site will be created and
kept stopped.

##### `physicalpath`

The physical path to the site directory. This path must be fully
qualified.

##### `applicationpool`

The name of an ApplicationPool for this IIS Web Site

##### `enabledprotocols`

The protocols enabled for the site. If 'https' is specified, 'http' is
implied. If no value is provided, then this setting is disabled. Can
be a comma delimited list of protocols. Valid protocols are: 'http',
'https', 'net.pipe', 'net.tcp', 'net.msmq', 'msmq.formatname'.

##### `bindings`

The protocol, address, port, and ssl certificate bindings for a web
site.

For web (http/https) protocols, the bindinginformation value should
be in the form of the IPv4/IPv6 address or wildcard *, then the port,
then the optional hostname separated by colons:
`(ip|\*):[1-65535]:(hostname)?`

A protocol value of "http" indicates a binding that uses the HTTP
protocol. A value of "https" indicates a binding that uses HTTP over
SSL.

The sslflags parameter accepts integer values from 0 to 3 inclusive.
- A value of "0" specifies that the secure connection be made using an
  IP/Port combination. Only one certificate can be bound to a
  combination of IP address and the port.
- A value of "1" specifies that the secure connection be made using
  the port number and the host name obtained by using Server Name
  Indication (SNI).
- A value of "2" specifies that the secure connection be made using
  the centralized SSL certificate store without requiring a Server
  Name Indicator.
- A value of "3" specifies that the secure connection be made using
  the centralized SSL certificate store while requiring Server Name
  Indicator

##### `serviceautostart`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Enables autostart on the specified website

##### `serviceautostartprovidername`

Specifies the provider used for service auto start. Used with
:serviceautostartprovidertype. The <serviceAutoStartProviders>
element specifies a collection of managed assemblies that Windows
Process Activation Service (WAS) will load automatically when the
startMode attribute of an application pool is set to AlwaysRunning.
This collection allows developers to specify assemblies that perform
initialization tasks before any HTTP requests are serviced.

example:
serviceautostartprovidername => "MyAutostartProvider"
serviceautostartprovidertype => "MyAutostartProvider, MyAutostartProvider, version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=426f62526f636b73"

##### `serviceautostartprovidertype`

Specifies the application type for the provider used for service auto
start. Used with :serviceautostartprovider

example:
serviceautostartprovidername => "MyAutostartProvider"
serviceautostartprovidertype => "MyAutostartProvider, MyAutostartProvider, version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=426f62526f636b73"

##### `preloadenabled`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Enables loading website automatically without a client request first

##### `defaultpage`

Specifies the default page of the site.

##### `logformat`

Specifies the format for the log file. When set to 'W3C', used with
`logflags`

##### `logpath`

Specifies the physical path to place the log file

##### `logperiod`

Specifies how often the log file should rollover

##### `logtruncatesize`

Specifies how large the log file should be before truncating it. The
value must be in bytes. The value can be any size between
\'1048576 (1MB)\' and \'4294967295 (4GB)\'.

##### `loglocaltimerollover`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Use the system\'s local time to determine for the log file name as
well as when the log file is rolled over

##### `logflags`

Specifies what W3C fields are logged in the log file. This is only
valid when `logformat` is set to 'W3C'.

##### `limits`

Configure limits for an IIS Site

##### `authenticationinfo`



#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `iis_site` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The Name of the IIS site. Used for uniqueness. Will set
the target to this value if target is unset.

### iis_virtual_directory

Allows creation of a new IIS Virtual Directory and configuration of virtual directory parameters.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `iis_virtual_directory` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

Manage the state of this rule.

Default value: present

##### `sitename`

The site name under which the virtual directory is created

##### `application`

The application under which the virtual directory is created

##### `physicalpath`

The physical path to the virtual directory. This path must be fully
qualified. Though not recommended, this can be a UNC style path.
Supply credentials for access to the UNC path with the `user_name` and
`password` properties.

##### `user_name`

Specifies the identity that should be impersonated when accessing the
physical path.

##### `password`

Specifies the password associated with the user_name property.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `iis_virtual_directory` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The name of the virtual directory to manage

